a recent study suggests the universe
is similar to your brain only at a much
much larger scale
the brain's neural network contains
about 86 billion
neurons the observable universe has at
least 100 billion galaxies
both galaxies and neurons have a similar
structure
it's a complex web of nodes linking up
long thread-like fibers
but in each of these systems the fibers
make up a mere 30 percent of the total
mass
and the remaining 70 are either water
in the brain or dark energy in the
universe
the ways that galaxies and webs of
neurons connect with one another
are surprisingly similar in both cases
the process follows the same physical
principles
at the same time some researchers claim
the resemblance between the brain
and the universe is only superficial
your mind perceives tiny details
and joins them and then it comes up with
a conclusion
that has nothing in common with reality
like the brain
is a mini universe in billions of years
the universe is likely to expand so much
that we won't be able to see any stars
in the sky
to turn earth into a black hole you'd
have to squeeze it
until it was the size of a marble and if
you wanted the
sun to become a black hole you'd have to
compress it
until it's no more than four miles
across
a starburst galaxy is a galaxy that's
forming tons of new stars
at breakneck speed it usually happens
after two galaxies
merge into one while earth has only one
natural satellite
jupiter is surrounded by at least 79
moons
in the universe there are not only dwarf
planets
but also dwarf galaxies they have from 1
000 to a few billion stars
for comparison the milky way galaxy is
made up of 250 to 400 billion stars
a super massive black hole 250 million
light years away from earth
hums the deepest sound ever detected
from
any object in the universe it's one
quadrillion
which is one with 15 zeros times deeper
than what the human ear can hear
planet celt 9b is 670 light years away
from earth
it's an ultra hot jupiter those are
giant
scorching hot planets with a mass
similar to that of jupiter
on kelt 9b the heat is so great on the
dayside of the planet
it tears molecules apart
any liquid floating in outer space forms
itself
into a sphere it also happens in low
earth orbit
our home milky way galaxy is more than
000 light years across all the planets
of the solar system would fit
between earth and the moon with some
space to spare
black holes spaghettify things it
happens when something gets past the
point of no return
then the black hole's gravitational pull
starts to stretch this object in one
direction
and squeeze in another
the first celestial body that
astronomers identified as a spiral
was the whirlpool galaxy its long arms
are made of gas and stars
and everything is sprinkled with fine
space dust
when you're on earth you can only see
five percent of the universe
a star coming too close to a black hole
can be torn
apart by its gravitational force
wasp 12b is a giant planet 1400 light
years away from earth
it's made up mostly of gas unfortunately
the planet is doomed it orbits too close
to its parent star
in about 10 million years wasp 12b
will be swallowed by its greedy sun
our milky way galaxy and the andromeda
galaxy
its closest neighbor are going to meet
in a bit less than 4 billion years
when they collide they'll form one huge
elliptical galaxy
one of saturn's smaller moons enceladus
reflects almost 90 percent of the sun's
light
it makes the moon one of the brightest
objects in the solar system
but since it reflects sunlight instead
of absorbing it
the temperatures on enceladus's icy
surface
drop to negative 330 degrees fahrenheit
the highest mountain in the solar system
is olympus mons
on mars it's three times as high as
mount everest
if you were standing on top of olympus
mons its slopes would be hidden by the
planet's curvature
in our solar system mercury and venus
are the only two planets without moons
scientists who are planning to send
droids to mars want to load the machines
with lots of heavy equipment
the droids will also be built from
stronger materials
all because of the relatively low
gravity on the red planet
everything on mars is almost three times
lighter
than on earth pluto's largest moon
is half the size of the dwarf planet
itself
this makes charin that's the moon's name
the largest known satellite
relative to its parent size
there are three golf balls on the moon
they were launched during the apollo 14
mission
mathematicians claim white holes might
exist
even though scientists haven't found one
yet if you came across a white hole
you wouldn't be able to enter it from
the outside but you'd see
light and matter escaping from within
on our planet one full rotation takes
one day
but the sun is so enormous that it needs
25 to 35
earth days to make one rotation
the moon is not a perfect sphere it's
shaped more like an egg
because of the earth's gravity
spacesuits protect astronauts from huge
temperature differences during
spacewalks
from negative 250 degrees fahrenheit to
positive 250 degrees fahrenheit
a neutron star gets born after a
supernova collapses
after birth it rotates extremely fast
about 60 times per second but this rate
can sometimes grow
up to 600 times per second
in 2007 astronomers started to receive
ultra bright and ultra strong radio
signals
named fast radio bursts they were coming
from somewhere billions of light years
away
when astronauts are in space they often
see random flashes of light
they occur when cosmic rays hit the
optic nerve in the eye
if you traveled around pluto's equator
it would be the same distance
as walking from rome to new york city
if you visited gj 504b a planet located
a mere 57 light years away from earth
you'd see that the planet is glowing
it's because of the heat left after its
formation
the planet's color is a dull magenta
like a dark cherry blossom
jupiter has the shortest day of all the
planets in the solar system
it lasts just 9 hours and 55 minutes
because of its fast rotation jupiter
isn't a perfect sphere
it's a bit flattened venus has more
volcanoes than any other planet in the
solar system
there are at least 1600 of them on the
planet's surface
but most of them are extinct
mercury has wrinkles when its iron core
was cooling
the planet's crust contracted it made
the surface of the planet
uneven nuclear pasta
found inside neutron stars is believed
to be the
strongest substance in the universe
these
noodles of neutrons can be 10 billion
times
stronger than steel some astronomers
believe black holes might have no event
horizon
aka the point of no return instead
there might be the apparent horizon it
can only trap stuff for some time
later matter or energy escapes but
in a different form each apollo mission
needed 15 spacesuits
each member of the three-person main
crew needed three suits
one was for training the second for
flight
and there was also a backup suit in case
something went wrong with the flight
suit
and each of the three members of the
backup crew had two spacesuits
one for training and one for flight
scientists believe mercury might still
have a partially molten core
it could explain why the planet has a
magnetic field
even if it's just one percent as strong
as earth's
dust storms on mars are the most severe
in the whole solar system
they can be raging for months on end
on planet kepler 16b which is 245 light
years away from earth
not one but two suns set over the
horizon
the planet is as massive as our saturn
but has a higher density
it takes 45 minutes to put on a
spacesuit
after it's done an astronaut needs
another hour
to adapt to new conditions earth grazing
fireballs
are bright meteors that enter the
earth's atmosphere but then
leave it again triton one of neptune's
moons
orbits the planet backward it's the only
big moon of
any known planet to do so triton is also
gradually getting closer to neptune
experts think that eventually the moon
will be pulled apart
by neptune's gravity and then it'll form
a ring around the gas giant
dwarf planet haumea which is further
from earth than neptune
is truly bizarre it's orbiting in the
kuiper belt
a donut shaped ring of ice objects
circling the sun
haumea has two moons a weirdly elongated
shape
and a day that lasts four earth hours
but the coolest thing the dwarf planet
is surrounded by incredibly thin
rings they're likely the result of an
ancient collision
it takes neptune almost 165 earth years
to make one full orbit around the sun
in other words since the gas giant was
discovered in 1846
it's only circled the sun once